add a cookbook for ChatGPT Bot (#961)
megaease/easegress: doc/cookbook/chatgpt-bot.md

# Build A Telegram ChatGPT Bot With Easegress

> Before reading this article, please read the [Multiple API Orchestration](./translation-bot.md) article to ensure understanding of Easegress API orchestration and Telegram robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before reading this article, please read the [Multiple API Orchestration](./translation-bot.md) article to ensure an understanding of Easegress API orchestration and Telegram robot.
```

> In this article, we will introduce how to build a Telegram ChatGPT robot with Easegress. This robot can generate a response based on the user's input.

Reviewer: Both `bot` and `robot` are used in this article, per telegram, we should only use `bot`.

## 1. Prerequisites

> Since the bot needs to receive Telegram message notifications and call third-party APIs, we must prepare the following in advance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the bot needs to receive Telegram message notifications and call ChatGPT APIs, we must prepare the following in advance:
```

* Install the latest version of Easegress according to [this document](https://github.com/megaease/easegress#setting-up-easegress) and make sure that external applications can access the Easegress instance on at least one of ports 80, 88, 443, or 8443.
* Create a Telegram bot by following [this document](https://core.telegram.org/bots#3-how-do-i-create-a-bot), set its name (EaseTranslateBot is used in this article), write down its token, and [set up a Webhook](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#setwebhook) that points to the Easegress instance installed in the previous step. Our bot will receive notifications of new messages through this Webhook.
* Create a [OpenAI](https://openai.com/blog/openai-api/) account and write down its API key.

## 2. How it works

The diagram below shows the workflow of this bot:

![ChatGPT Bot Workflow](../imgs/chatgpt-bot-workflow.png)

Upon receiving a notification of a new message from the Telegram server via webhook, the bot first checks the message type. If it is a text message, then call the [ChatGPT API](https://openai.com/blog/openai-api/) and send the response to the user via Telegram.

## 3. Pipeline

> First, let's check the overall flow that Pipeline orchestrates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's check the overall flow of the Pipeline:
```

```yaml
name: chatgpt-pipeline
kind: Pipeline

flow:
# we put the final response builder at the top because Telegram requires
# us to return a response for every Request, but we only process some of
# the requests. If we put it at the end, the requests we don't process
# will end the process early and no Response will be returned.
- filter: buildFinalResponse

# check request type, only process text message
- filter: checkRequestType
  jumpIf:
    result0: processText
    "": END                              # ignore, end the processing

# process text message
- filter: requestBuilderExtractText
  alias: processText                     # alias of the filter
  namespace: extract                     # namespace the filter belongs to

# send to ChatGPT
- filter: requestBuilderChatGPT          # send request to ChatGPT
  alias: chatGPT
  namespace: gpt
- filter: proxyChatGPT
  namespace: gpt

# send reply message to Telegram
- filter: requestBuilderReply            # constructing a request to send the reply
  namespace: tg
- filter: proxyTelegram                  # send the request to Telegram
  namespace: tg
```

## 4. Filter

### 4.1 Backend Proxies

> We need to create two proxies to send requests to the ChatGPT API and Telegram API. The configuration of the two proxies is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to create two proxies to send requests to the ChatGPT API server and the Telegram API server. The configuration of the two proxies is as follows:
```

```yaml
- name: proxyChatGPT
  kind: Proxy
  pools:
  - servers:
    - url: https://api.openai.com

- name: proxyTelegram
  kind: Proxy
  pools:
  - servers:
    - url: https://api.telegram.org
```

### 4.2 Check and Extract Text

> The processing details is consistent with that in [Multiple API Orchestration](./translation-bot.md) and will not be described again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The processing details are the same as that in [Multiple API Orchestration](./translation-bot.md).
```

```yaml
filters:
- kind: ResultBuilder
  name: checkRequestType
  template: |
    {{- $msg := or .requests.DEFAULT.JSONBody.message .requests.DEFAULT.JSONBody.channel_post -}}
    {{- if $msg.text}}result0{{end -}}

- kind: RequestBuilder
  name: requestBuilderExtractText
  template: |
    {{- $msg := or .requests.DEFAULT.JSONBody.message .requests.DEFAULT.JSONBody.channel_post -}}
    body: |
      {
         "exclude": true,
         "text": "{{$msg.text | jsonEscape}}"
      }
```

### 4.3 Send Request to ChatGPT

> Build a request to send to ChatGPT. See more details in [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/chate). Make sure to replace the `{Your OpenAI API Key}` with your own API key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build a request to send to ChatGPT. See more details in [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/chat). Make sure to replace the `{Your OpenAI API Key}` with your own API key.
```

> Build a request to send to the ChatGPT API. See more details in [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/chate). Make sure to replace the `{Your OpenAI API Key}` with your own API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build a request to send to ChatGPT. See more details in [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/chate). Make sure to replace the `{Your OpenAI API Key}` with your own API key.
```
